- Let's find out, how do we use SessionAttribute
or SessionAttributes,
inside our H+ application.
The first step is the set up those SessionAttributes
for the login form.
So what we want to do is, if you look at our application,
let's go home, and when we come to the login page,
that is our login form,
which is going to be bound to the login model.
So we're going to store that login model inside the session,
using the annotation of @sessionattributes.
So let's go to IDE.
Let's open the LoginController.
So when the request from the login GSB is submitted,
it is of course going to come to this controller.
We know that.
Inside this, we are going to use @sessionattributes
to store that login model inside the http session object.
So just for a recap, let's open the GSB of login
and remind ourselves that the model attribute name
that was attached to the login form on line 37 is "login".
So this is the model name
that we want to store in the session.
So let's go to LoginController now.
And let's come on line 13.
So @sessionattributes annotation
is always applicable at the type level, at the class level.
So I'm going to say @sessionattributes,
and I will say that you store the information in the session
by the same name, login,
that we have referred to inside the GSB.
Now, a very important thing to note here is,
when you mention @sessionattributes and provide a key,
you also have to make sure
that the model attribute by the same name
already exists inside the controller.
It needs to make sure that a model is ready by the same name
before it tries to store the model information
by the same name inside the http session object.
So just be careful with this,
and we have to make sure that on line 21,
let's say, we do this thing.
We say that there is a model attribute login,
and let's just have some kind of method...
where you return...
the login model.
So I'm just going to institute this.
However, I don't think we need to do this right now.
In our previous videos, we had fixed an issue
where we said that all the model attributes
can be pulled and applied across all the controllers
by the default model controller advice that we applied.
Let's recap that on our project structure.
If we go to the default model attribute controller,
if you remember,
we had annotated this controller with controlleradvice
so that whatever model attributes
that we initialize as a part of this class
get applied to all the controller classes.
So, in that, on line 24,
we already have a model attribute by that same name,
and hence, there is no need to explicitly do that again
inside the LoginController.
So I'm just going to eliminate lines 20 to 24.
I coded this so that we understand
what are we supposed to do,
but we have already done this
as a part of the controlleradvice annotation,
so we are good, we are safe,
and we do not need to do that again.
Okay, so now what is this going to do?
It is going to make sure that it stores the information
in the session object by the name login.
The next thing to do is,
we have to retrieve this session attribute.
So, when the control from the GSB
from this form is submitted,
it will come to LoginController,
and that is the place where the login information model
is going to be stored in SessionAttributes.
So now what we will do is,
from the LoginController's login method,
we are going to move to another controller,
where we will be able to access that SessionAttribute.
Because we said, right,
that session encompasses multiple requests,
so when you go from one controller to the other,
that session information should be available
until the session terminates.
So now, what we have to do, we have to come to login,
and forward the control to another controller,
and that is what we will set up.
So we have to create the UserProfileController now,
so that we can forward the control loop.
So under the controller's package,
let's create a class and say,
UserProfileController.
This is, again, going to be our controller.
So let's annotate that,
and let's say this is going to hold a PostMapping.
Let's identify it by a URL pattern.
Okay, and then let's follow it with a method.
So we'll put it on a string,
and let's say it gets UserProfile.
And I'm just going to put a simple sysout
saying, "in user profile controller,"
and we have to return to, let's say, a new GSB now.
Let's call it "profile GSB."
We will put this GSB in our project structure
in the next video.
So there we go, we have the simple user profile
controller return with a URL pattern.
And what it is trying to do,
it is supposed to get the user profile.
But the sole purpose of this profile controller
is to fetch that attribute from session.
So how do we do that?
The second annotation that we know of, @SessionAttribute.
So, that's what we are going to tag
to the method signature argument.
There we go.
Let's give that name.
The name has to be same as the one
that you use to store the session attribute.
And this is going to be bound to the login bean.
That's login model for us.
So let's import that.
And we can also grab the model argument,
just in case we want to store any
other information as a part of this controller.
There we go.
So, just to have a quick recap,
on the login controller on the class level,
we store the session attribute with this name.
Please definitely make sure that the model attribute
by the same name exists in our controller.
We have done that using the controlleradvice.
If you're not going to follow that approach,
you can institute the model attribute as a short wiffle.
And the other thing that we did is,
to retrieve the session attribute,
we set up a new controller,
and we have annotated that method signature argument
with @SessionAttribute.